For my final project, I'm making a web app that analyzes rap mixtape covers and creates data correlations based on the mixtape's color, complexity, artist location, and release date. Rap started as a genre that is heavily territorial. The sounds and aesthetics were often shared contagiously within a region. With the advent of internet-shared rap, the region-specific sounds and aesthetics became a bit more ambiguous and influences spread regardless of locality. Mixtapes, in particular, are a medium that can be seen as a proving ground for both new and established artists. Because they're free, and not necessarily under the heavy advisement of a corporation, mixtapes are often a more raw, experimental expression of the artist.

As a designer with an interest in the niche of mixtape artwork, I want to find out if there's a correlation between location and styles of artwork like there is with region-specific sound. I'm going to scrape data from DatPiff, the most popular mixtape website, and create an algorithm to determine the predominant color palette of the cover and calculate the complexity based on those results. By collecting this information, I can make some conclusions on the popularity of a color in a particular region, determine if mixtape artwork has become more or less minimal over time, and try to find unique relationships across time and location that are rarely seen.

Ultimately, I want this site to serve as an exploratory tool that has a strong visual impact. Users will be able to come to their own conclusions, for example about how after Kanye West's Good Music label emerged, mixtapes became much more minimal in design, how rappers from Houston tend to use more purple on their covers, or how rappers from Atlanta have the most visually complex covers. This is a topic that I'm passionate about, and though there has been discussion about the mixtape artwork aesthetic before, it's never been explored to this depth. I think this will be a fun, challenging project that I can be truly proud to show off.
